Hey guys welcome back to the course in this lecture.
We're going to go over some basics that are really going to help you understand how web projects work.
So this is part of the section of essentials.
Really really basic things that are essential for you to understand in order to be successful in order
to understand how web development works.
Now if you have any programming experience please just go down to the bottom and click next lecture.
You don't need to hear any of this.
This lecture is for people who have no experience programming or they're very very vague on what they
understand and what they don't know.
So this lecture is called Understanding the dev stack well dev just means development.
And when I say stack I'm talking about the stack of technologies that go into making a web site or any
type of application.
So what exactly is a stack with a stack is just the sandwich of technologies that are used to build
whatever it is that you're making or having made for you.
So those of you who have absolutely no familiarity with building web sites you probably didn't know
that there's actually multiple layers to your Web site.
If you do have superior experience you obviously already know this.
So to give you an example of a stack and then I can explain what exactly I mean by that.
Take the word or the acronym lamp.
OK lamp is one of the most common developments stacks out there and what it stands for is Linux Apache.
My sequel ph P There are probably something like jibberish if you are not a programmer but really all
I'm doing is I'm describing every single step of my technology.
And what is being used.
OK.
So the way that it actually works it would really kind of be written I think opposite so it should be
lamp at the very bottom at the very top the very top is ph P.
Now if you ever heard of this is a technology it's called a server side technology it's called the scripting
technology.
But what it is is it's used to carry information from a browser page to a server.
It's used to make calculations on any information that the front of a Web site receives.
It's also used to pull information from other sources or other web sites for use in your web site.
Now if he is popular it's probably the most prolific programming language out there.
Actually Facebook I'm sure use Facebook that was built in PH.
P A lot of very very popular Web sites were built in DHP.
WordPress was made HP then moving down you go to my sequel My sequel is actually just the name of the
database that a web site would use.
Now my school is by far the most popular and I'd say almost 85 percent of projects use my sequel alternatives
are like no sequel or Mongo D.B and there's a couple of other ones like Oracle Oracle databases so their
database is literally just the storage container that stores all the information that your Web site
receives.
I type in my user information I create an account that gets stored in a database.
Now my choice of what database to use is what determines the Im in the lamp acronym.
So then pass that you have Apache and Apache is a technology that runs on your server that essentially
just allows your server to handle information coming in.
It allows your sequel databases to communicate with each other and it basically is the foundation for
transferring information easily off of a server past that the last thing is just Linux and what Linux
basically is it is an operating system much like Microsoft Windows or OS 10.
If you're using a Mac and that just describes what operating system does your server use.
Now you really don't need to concern yourself with those last two letters but I wanted to explain to
you what that means if you ever run into lamp.
Now if I said wimp or may I'm busy all I'm saying is in Whampoa saying Windows as opposed to Linux or
map I'm saying it gets into a big mac os.
So that's part of the basics of what a stack is.
Now with Web sites something that often gets left off is that the very top layer so this would be actually
above the HP.
That is the graphic design layer.
Now the graphic design layer is usually handled by a combination of TMLC SS and Javascript.
Those are three different languages and they all kind of do roughly the same thing.
Javascript is more for running actions on your page.
Pop ups buttons things like that HDMI and CSSA are more for where the elements get put what aligns with
what.
What color should this be.
Now that's very much at the very top of it that handles whatever you're looking at.
Where does the design go what does it look like what happens when I click this page comes the next Those
are all occurring on the very top layer.
Now why is it important to understand that your technology comes in stacks like that.
Well one thing you need to understand is that there's multiple ways of making a web site.
So imagine how I mentioned ph P ph P is where the bulk of your web site or application is probably going
to be built in terms of code size because the most important part of any web site is what the Web site
can do with your information how it displays things like images how it can manipulate information or
send information around.
That's usually the value in a web site.
And so that layer is usually the most important.
There's other popular ways of getting that done.
Now if you probably ever heard of Ruby on Rails that's another example of a technology that can replace
ph.
Another one is like Python and Python is what Google uses.
So I am explaining this solely because when you build your development business you usually get a half
to decide what stack you're going to use.
So it's spread like we had to make a decision what stack are we going to use or are we going to offer
as a service multiple stacks.
Are we only going to stay with one stack.
Are we only going to staff people who can write in ph P or do we just staff people who also write in
teach Python and Ruby.
Now obviously if we're talking on a mobile application the stack is going to be different instead of
PH P We're probably talking about Java if it's on Android or talking about Objective-C or swift if it's
on iOS but past that it's still going to operate very similarly.
It's still going to use a sequel database most likely.
And then on the front end it actually will end up using a different kind of programming to handle the
front end.
But regardless you still have to make decisions about what you're going to use.
OK.
So the main takeaway from this lecture all technology is all web sites or mobile applications they have
multiple layers of technology going on.
When you start your development firm you're going to need to make a decision about what you're going
to use if you're a programmer and you're good at something already.
Stick with what you know.
There's also an opportunity for you to say I don't work on the entire stack.
I only work on one section.
You could say I only work on the top layer the javascript the aged him and the CSX.
Then what you're basically saying is I only do the front end.
I focus on what your website looks like how the page interacts with the user how the buttons work how
to transitions work how do I embed movies or images or anything that moves or any graphic animations.
You could also focus solely on what's past the top layer.
You could only do the actual programming side you could say we only take projects that have designed
and already have the HVM LCS SS javascript done.
All we do is then make a back end for your website or your application and plug it in.
So in the next lecture we're going to talk about how do you make a decision about what stack to use.
And in that lecture we're going to talk a little bit more about what are the most important things to
take into consideration when you do actually pick a stack.
It's a lot simpler than you think.
But the main takeaway from this lecture is that you need to understand that all websites and applications
are built in layers and each individual layer is typically done by a different person unless you have
someone who is an expert at all of them.
You're typically going to be hiring specialists so there's opportunities to make your needs in a specific
layer but you can also build on every single layer.
You just need to understand that it's kind of like a sandwich in every single Web site is going to need
something for every single layer like the lamp stack.
It's going to need to have an operating system and it's server.
It's going to need to have an Apache or any other type of server technology to run applications and
then it's going to need server side technology like APHC or Ruby on Rails or a python to handle information
transfer information manipulate information and then it's finally going to need some kind of graphic
interface and then programming to handle the images on the page.
I hope I didn't garble that up.
Hopefully that makes a little bit more sense so in the next lecture again we're going to talk about
how do you make a decision in the next lecture.